All right,
let's get started with some fundamentals.
Open up 03 - CSS Grid Fundamentals
and go into the START file.
I also have it open in my editor here.
Now before we even write anything,
let's understand what is a grid, and what is a relationship.
So I've created this really nice diagram here
that we're gonna use to understand,
and the idea behind a grid is that you're gonna take a div,
or a paragraph tag, or any element on the page,
and you are going to display:grid it,
and by display:grid-ding it,
that opens up the ability to sort of slice and dice
that one div that we used to have into an actual grid,
where it's just a bunch of places
that we can place our items.
Now, once you've actually sliced and diced your grid,
you're gonna have items inside of that grid,
and then we can place them anywhere on it.
So let's say I went ahead and took this div here,
and sliced it into a grid,
and I said it has one, two, three, four, five,
six different columns.
Some of them are bigger, some of them are smaller,
and then I have one, two, three, four, five rows,
so you can go ahead and explicitly define
your columns and your rows, and then what you can do is
let me get a different color here for science's sake.
You can take your items that are inside of that grid,
and it's gonna allow us to really just lay them out
wherever it is that we want it.
Oh, I gotta
How does Microsoft Paint work?
There we go.
Some fuchsia.
So like let's say I wanted to go from here to here.
Good, no problem.
I could take this one and go here to here.
I wanted to span it all the way across.
That would be no problem like that.
If I only wanted to span it two different ones,
I could do that.
If I wanted to span it multiple rows
I totally could as well.
That's the whole idea behind CSS Grid is
you take an element, dice it up into columns and rows,
these things are collectively referred to as tracks,
and then, once you have all of your tracks in your element,
you can take your items and lay them out
anywhere inside of this grid that we want
without any need for positioning,
top, left, bottom, position-absolute,
all those sort of hacks that we've had before.
Now there's a lot more to it.
There's a whole concept of implicit and explicit grid,
and we're gonna go into all those examples.
That's the base idea that we have there.
So let's go ahead and start making our own grid.
I'm in the body tag here and I want a container,
and inside of that I want a bunch of items.
So I have a div with a class of item, and inside of that,
I'm going to have an item with a dollar sign inside of it,
and that's gonna give us one, two, three, four,
multiply that by 10.
So .item*10, I'm gonna hit Enter,
that's gonna spit out a div with a class of item,
and then one through 10 inside of it.
Now if you pop open a pair of style tags,
and you can put your style tags above or below,
and I'll likely be doing them below,
just for viewability's sake.
I don't know if viewability is a thing,
but just so that you can see the HTML
and see the CSS that I'm writing,
but more likely,
you're going to have your CSS being linked in in a CSS file.
In there, we're going to take our container
and display:grid, because much like flex-box,
the whole CSS Grid thing is all about
this sort of delicate dance
between what's called the CSS Grid container
and the CSS Grid items.
So when you actually display:grid on a container,
you make all of its direct children,
so every element that is directly inside of it,
you make that a CSS Grid item without having to do
there is no, like, display
like we don't have to take, like, item
and say display:grid item, or griddit,
or I don't know what it would be called,
but it already is a grid item
without us even having to say it.
Now simply displaying grid on a container doesn't do much.
That's because we have yet to slice and dice our container
into something that has a bunch of columns or rows.
So the way that we can do that is
the very easiest way is to explicitly say
how big we would like each of these to be.
So we could go into here and say grid-template-columns
and just go ahead and define all of the different columns
that we'd want.
So let's say we wanted three columns,
each of them being 100 pixels.
We say 100px, 100px, 100px, and give that a save,
and what's gonna happen is the browser
is automatically going to take this container and say,
okay, well it needs to be 300 pixels wide,
because they only asked for three columns,
each of them being 100 pixels wide,
and then it will take each of the grid items,
remember, each of the immediate children
of your grid container is considered a grid item,
and it's just gonna start to lay them out
inside of the grid.
So we have one, two, three columns,
and then the rows are automatically created as we go on.
We're gonna go into that a little bit in a video or two.
It's called the implicit grid,
but we'll master this for now.
Now if they're all squished together,
we can add something called the grid gap,
and let's just make 20px on side of that,
and what that's gonna do is it's going to give you
some spacing in between each of your columns and your rows.
Again, these columns and these rows
are collectively called tracks,
so grid-gap is going to put some sort of like
it's very much like margin,
and it's gonna go in between each of your tracks.
Now, well, what else can we do here?
You can specify different values that you want.
So maybe you wanted 200 pixels.
Maybe you wanted one to be 500 pixels,
and then you want one to be 50px.
You can do that, and it's just going to
By default, the items that are inside of that cell
are going to just be stretched across,
and we'll look at some of the different properties
that we can use to align them, and center them, and whatnot,
all the way across.
Well, that's good, and by the way,
pixels aren't the only thing that we can use here.
We're gonna be going into different values, but if you have
you can mix and match them with a 50rem,
and that would be fairly large,
or you can use pixels, you can use percentages,
although, before you go willy-nilly
thinking about how you used to do things
with floats and percentages,
hold off the percentages just for now,
because we are going to go into a unit called the fr unit,
which will replace your need for percentages
in quite a lot of these different values as you want.
You can also use the auto keyword,
so let me bring this back to 100 pixels, auto,
and what that will do is it will just sort of
You see how, now, look at this, whoo, as it's responsive.
What that does is it says it will
automatically lay out these columns
that we told it to be the width,
and then it will just automatically lay out
the rest of them.
So it gave 500 pixels here, it gave 50 pixels here,
it gave 100 pixels here, and it's like,
oh, I got this much extra left over.
I'm going to just take it all.
I'm going to automatically lay myself out,
and that sets us up for kind of fluid, or responsive values,
like, how many times have your tried to do that in the past,
where maybe you wanted a thick sidebar of 300 pixels,
and then you just want the rest to be there.
Well, that's very simple in CSS Grid,
because you can just drag and drop the value here,
and that one will always stay fixed value.
So you can go as far as you want,
or we can also use some different functions
called, like, the repeat function.
We'll go more into this,
but maybe you wanted five that were 100 pixels each.
That's going to just dice it up.
It's gonna repeat itself five times over for 100 pixels.
Same thing goes for using rows,
so you could say grid-template-rows,
and maybe you want the first row to be 200 pixels,
nice and high, the next one maybe just 100 pixels,
and the third one 400 pixels.
See what that gives us.
We've got, obviously,
the first one, second one, third one, aligning here.
Why are they going all the way across?
Well, because I deleted the columns, right?
If you do not explicitly define the columns that you want,
how many columns do you have?
Well, just one.
So we could bring that back
by a grid-template-columns 200, 500,
and now you see what we've done here is
we have defined two columns that go top to bottom,
and then we've only defined three rows,
and you see after that,
they sort of just start to size themselves, and again,
that's the implicit grid that we're gonna be talking about.
Past that, I think that's our very fundamentals
of understanding how Grid works.
The way that we do it is we display:grid,
and then we slice and dice it into both columns and rows,
which are collectively called tracks,
and we can also space them apart
using something called a grid-gap.